.T effect of slight blunting of leading edge of an immersed body on the flow around it at hypersonic speed . .A chernyi,g.g. .B nasa tt f-35, 1960. .W effect of slight blunting of leading edge of an immersed body on the flow around it at hypersonic speed . manufacturing and maintainance of ideally sharp leading edges and noses is practically impossible, hence a discrepancy arises between the theory established for sharp edges and actual flow around slightly blunted edges, where a detached shock is formed with a subsonic adjacent region . semi-empirical method is worked out showing that the pressure distribution in the vicinity of the leading edge is the same for different thin profiles having the same shape of bluntness on their edges or noses . the data for a flat plate can be used for all of them . for moderate supersonic speed the pressure on the remaining body is practically unaffected by the nose bluntness, and can be computed from a sharp-edge theory . for high supersonic speed a slight blunting of the edge can considerably alter the pattern of flow over a large region . the method consists in replacing blunted edge by action of concentrated forces on the flow,. it is applied to blunted wedge where it shows doubling of the drag computed by classic theory, and to cones, where the drag of a blunted cone may become smaller than that of a sharp one . .T theory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonic turbines . .A stratford,b.s. and sansome,g.e. .B arc r + m 3275, 1960. .W theory and tunnel tests of rotor blade for supersonic turbines . in special circumstances where a large work output is required from a turbine in a single stage it is necessary to use high pressure ratios across the nozzle blades, thus producing supersonic velocities at inlet to the rotor . as part of an investigation into such turbines, several designs for the inter-blade passages of the rotor have been tested in a two-dimensional tunnel, a design theory being developed concurrently . the first design, featuring constant passage width and curvature as in steam-turbine practice, but having thin leading and trailing edges, was found to suffer from focusing of the compression waves from the concave surface, with consequent flow separation from the opposite convex surface . it gave a velocity coefficient of measured at an inlet mach number of 1.90 and turning angle of 140 deg . the measured value compares favourably with values from previous steam tests, where the results have been in the range from 0.65 to 0.92 . from theoretical reasoning, and from additional test observations, a subsequent passage was designed having an inlet transition length of small curvature, leading to a free-vortex passage of double the transition curvature,. a small amount of contraction was incorporated . schlieren photographs showed the flow in this passage to be almost shock free . a thin region of low-energy air existed close to the convex surface, but liquid-injection tests located only one small bubble of reversed flow . pressure traverses at exit indicated a velocity coefficient of 0.952, based on the area-mean total pressure . when allowance is made for turning angle and reynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T the performance of supersonic turbine nozzles . .A stratford,b.s. and sansome,g.e. .B arc r + m 3273, 1959. .W the performance of supersonic turbine nozzles . an investigation has been conducted at the national gas turbine establishment into the performance of turbines having high pressure ratios per stage . the present report discusses the mode of operation of supersonic nozzles for such turbines, and describes a cascade experiment . both theory and experiment demonstrate that the conditions imposed upon the supersonic flow immediately downstream of the nozzles (e.g., by a following row of rotor blades) exert an overriding influence upon the nozzle outlet flow angle, and hence upon the maximum pressure ratio obtainable across the nozzle--providing that the axial component of velocity is subsonic . this is an important difference from the more familiar flow of subsonic turbine nozzles, where, for example, the downstream gas angle is controlled predominantly by the nozzle blade shape and spacing . a suitable test technique using a closed-jet tunnel is demonstrated . the particular nozzles tested, of convergent-divergent form, had a straight-sided divergent portion of to axial direction) and a design mach number of 2 . the flow was found to be well behaved as regards shock pattern, losses, and starting over the range of pressure ratios tested--between 9 1 and 19 1 . in particular the efficiency at the design pressure ratio of 16.6 1 was high, the velocity coefficient calculated from traverses of pitot and static tubes being 0.98 . for the conversion of pitot to total pressure at a mach number of 2.5 a high accuracy is important in the measurement of the static pressure,. nevertheless readings from a conventional four-hole instrument appear to be reliable . e for turning angle and reynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T on the testing of supersonic compressor cascades . .A staniforth,r. .B ngte r212, 1957. .W on the testing of supersonic compressor cascades . to facilitate the development of high speed axial-flow compressors, an investigation was made into the possibility of measuring blade performance in a stationary cascade at supersonic speeds . a suitable technique was developed and the losses in a variety of cascades were measured, but these losses were too high for the blading to have any possible application . it was concluded that if a useful compressor is to result, it is essential to test the cascades at mach numbers close to the existing technique was suitable only for zero incidence tests, and thus a new approach is necessary . some of the fundamentals of this cascade testing at low supersonic speeds are discussed in the light of the current understanding of the mode of operation of supersonic compressors at transonic speeds .  angle is controlled predominantly by the nozzle blade shape and spacing . a suitable test technique using a closed-jet tunnel is demonstrated . the particular nozzles tested, of convergent-divergent form, had a straight-sided divergent portion of to axial direction) and a design mach number of 2 . the flow was found to be well behaved as regards shock pattern, losses, and starting over the range of pressure ratios tested--between 9 1 and 19 1 . in particular the efficiency at the design pressure ratio of 16.6 1 was high, the velocity coefficient calculated from traverses of pitot and static tubes being 0.98 . for the conversion of pitot to total pressure at a mach number of 2.5 a high accuracy is important in the measurement of the static pressure,. nevertheless readings from a conventional four-hole instrument appear to be reliable . e for turning angle and reynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T the test performance of highly loaded turbine stages designed for high pressure ratio . .A johnston,i.h. and dransfield,d.c. .B ngte r235, 1959. .W the test performance of highly loaded turbine stages designed for high pressure ratio . a blade design for a highly loaded two-stage turbine is described and the test performance of the turbine is presented . some of the factors affecting the performance and matching of turbine blade rows operating at supersonic gas velocity are discussed and investigated by means of tests on a three-dimensional nozzle cascade tunnel and on a variety of single-stage turbine builds . close to the existing technique was suitable only for zero incidence tests, and thus a new approach is necessary . some of the fundamentals of this cascade testing at low supersonic speeds are discussed in the light of the current understanding of the mode of operation of supersonic compressors at transonic speeds .  angle is controlled predominantly by the nozzle blade shape and spacing . a suitable test technique using a closed-jet tunnel is demonstrated . the particular nozzles tested, of convergent-divergent form, had a straight-sided divergent portion of to axial direction) and a design mach number of 2 . the flow was found to be well behaved as regards shock pattern, losses, and starting over the range of pressure ratios tested--between 9 1 and 19 1 . in particular the efficiency at the design pressure ratio of 16.6 1 was high, the velocity coefficient calculated from traverses of pitot and static tubes being 0.98 . for the conversion of pitot to total pressure at a mach number of 2.5 a high accuracy is important in the measurement of the static pressure,. nevertheless readings from a conventional four-hole instrument appear to be reliable . e for turning angle and reynolds number this result appears to compare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T the supersonic axial flow compressor . .A kantrowitz,a. .B naca r974, 1950. .W the supersonic axial flow compressor . an investigation has been made to explore the possibilities of axial-flow compressors operating with supersonic velocities into the blade rows . preliminary calculations showed that very high pressure ratios across a stage, together with somewhat increased mass flows, were apparently possible with compressors which decelerated air through the speed of sound in their blading . the first phase of this investigation, which has been reported in naca acr l5d20, was the development of efficient supersonic diffusers to decelerate air through the speed of sound . the present report is largely a general discussion of some of the essential aerodynamics of single-stage supersonic axial-flow compressors . in the supersonic flow about isolated bodies, large energy losses usually occur due to wave systems which extend far from the bodies . supersonic flow entering a cascade is considered and, in this case, the possibility of entirely eliminating this extended wave system is demonstrated,. thus, no reason for supersonic compressors to be necessarily inefficient is apparent . the conditions that occur as the flow through the compressor is being started are discussed and a hypothesis as to the type of transonic flow which will be encountered is proposed . as an approach to the study of supersonic compressors, three possible velocity diagrams are discussed briefly . because of the encouraging results of this study, an experimental single-stage supersonic compressor has been constructed and tested in freon-12 . in this compressor, air decelerates through the speed of sound in the rotor blading and enters the stators at subsonic speeds . a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiency of about 80 percent has been obtained . pare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T flow pattern in a converging-diverging nozzle . .A oswatitsch,k. and rothstein,w. .B naca tm.1215. .W flow pattern in a converging-diverging nozzle . the present report describes a new method for the prediction of the flow pattern of a gas in the two-dimensional and axially symmetrical case . it is assumed that the expansion of the gas is adiabatic and the flow stationary . the several assumptions necessary on the nozzle shape effect, in general, no essential limitation on the conventional nozzles . the method is applicable throughout the entire speed range,. the velocity of sound itself plays no singular part . the principal weight is placed on the treatment of the flow near the throat of a converging-diverging nozzle . for slender nozzles formulas are derived for the calculation of the velocity components as function of the location .  isolated bodies, large energy losses usually occur due to wave systems which extend far from the bodies . supersonic flow entering a cascade is considered and, in this case, the possibility of entirely eliminating this extended wave system is demonstrated,. thus, no reason for supersonic compressors to be necessarily inefficient is apparent . the conditions that occur as the flow through the compressor is being started are discussed and a hypothesis as to the type of transonic flow which will be encountered is proposed . as an approach to the study of supersonic compressors, three possible velocity diagrams are discussed briefly . because of the encouraging results of this study, an experimental single-stage supersonic compressor has been constructed and tested in freon-12 . in this compressor, air decelerates through the speed of sound in the rotor blading and enters the stators at subsonic speeds . a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiency of about 80 percent has been obtained . pare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T intensity, scale and spectra of turbulence in mixing region of free subsonic jet . .A laurence,j. .B naca r1292, 1956. .W intensity, scale and spectra of turbulence in mixing region of free subsonic jet . the intensity of turbulence, the longitudinal and lateral correlation coefficients, and the spectra of turbulence in a 3.5 inch-diameter free jet were measured with hot-wire anemometers at exit mach numbers from 0.2 to 0.7 and reynolds numbers from the results of these measurements show the following .. (1) near the nozzle (distances less than 4 or 5 jet diam downstream of the nozzle) the intensity of turbulence, expressed as percent of core velocity, is a maximum at a distance of approximately increasing mach and or reynolds number . at distances greater than 8 jet diameters downstream of the nozzle, however, the maximum intensity moves out and decreases in magnitude until the turbulence-intensity profiles are quite flat and approaching similarity . (2) the lateral and longitudinal scales of turbulence are nearly independent of mach and or reynolds number and in the mixing zone near the jet vary proportionally with distance from the jet nozzle . (3) farther downstream of the jet the longitudinal scale reaches a maximum and then decreases approximately linearly with distance . (4) near the nozzle the lateral scale is much smaller than the longitudinal and does not vary with distance from the centerline, while the longitudinal scale is a maximum at a distance from the centerline of about mum moves out from the centerline . (6) a statistical analysis of the correlograms and spectra yields a /scale/ which, although different in magnitude from the conventional, varies similarly to the ordinary scale and is easier to evaluate .  speeds . a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiency of about 80 percent has been obtained . pare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T on the strength distribution of noise sources along a jet . .A ribner,h.s. .B utia r51, 1958. .W on the strength distribution of noise sources along a jet . the spatial distribution of noise sources along a jet is investigated by application of lighthill's theory to regions of 'similar' profiles . the analysis refers to the noise power emitted by a 'slice' of jet (section between two adjacent planes normal to the axis) as a function of distance x of the slice from the nozzle . it is found that this power is essentially constant with x in the initial mixing region (x law), then further downstream (say 8 or 10 diameters from the nozzle) falls off extremely fast (x law or faster) in the fully developed jet . because of this striking attenuation of strength with distance, it is concluded that the mixing region produces the bulk of the noise and must dominate in muffler behavior,. conversely, the 'fat' part of the jet must contribute much less to the total noise power than is commonly supposed . powell's experiments on the effects of nozzle velocity profile on total noise power are interpreted qualitatively . the behavior of multiple-nozzle or corrugated mufflers, both as to overall quieting and frequency-shifting, is also interpreted in the light of the results . the possibility emerges that such mufflers may be improved without serious thrust loss by the addition of a sound-attenuating shroud .  centerline, while the longitudinal scale is a maximum at a distance from the centerline of about mum moves out from the centerline . (6) a statistical analysis of the correlograms and spectra yields a /scale/ which, although different in magnitude from the conventional, varies similarly to the ordinary scale and is easier to evaluate .  speeds . a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiency of about 80 percent has been obtained . pare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . .T a general purpose analogue correlator for the analysis of random noise signals . .A g. a. allcock, a.m.i.e.e., a.m.brit.i.r.e. p. l. tanner, m.sc. (eng), grad. i.e.e. k. r. mclachlan, a.m.brit. i.r.e. .B .W a general purpose analogue correlator for the analysis of random noise signals . a large proportion of the current research programme of the department of aeronautics and astronautics is concerned with the study of jet noise and boundary layer pressure fluctuations and their effect on aircraft structures . early in the work it was decided that for a complete description of the random processes involved it would be necessary in the experimental programme to make correlation measurements in addition to the more standard spectrum and amplitude distribution measurements . it was also felt that it would be desirable from the university point of view to construct a general purpose correlator which could later be used on other types of work . to this end it was decided to give the correlator a wider bandwidth than might strictly have been necessary for the problems on hand . subsequent development work has amply justified this decision . e or corrugated mufflers, both as to overall quieting and frequency-shifting, is also interpreted in the light of the results . the possibility emerges that such mufflers may be improved without serious thrust loss by the addition of a sound-attenuating shroud .  centerline, while the longitudinal scale is a maximum at a distance from the centerline of about mum moves out from the centerline . (6) a statistical analysis of the correlograms and spectra yields a /scale/ which, although different in magnitude from the conventional, varies similarly to the ordinary scale and is easier to evaluate .  speeds . a pressure ratio of about 1.8 at an efficiency of about 80 percent has been obtained . pare quite favourably with previous work . it would seem that the optimum blade pitching in a turbine would be about 20 to 30 per cent closer than in a two-dimensional cascade . however, the resultant pitching tends to become very close, except at very large turning angles, with the result that in some applications difficulties could arise in the practical design and manufacture . several uncertainties remain and the present design must be regarded as still experimental . 